# May 21, 2025

*Voice journal entry imported from the Apple Journal app. Transcript is verbatim (auto-transcribed audio).*

## 7:14 AM — Audio journal

I haven't journal in a long time. And I I wish that I would journal more often so you know what I'm gonna I'll start doing it as a part of my daily time and here because I feel like there's so many thoughts and things that I have on a daily basis that I let go in one ear and out the other.

Or I guess if it's a thought, I let it go out both ears.

But I'll start off by saying this.

The last week I have been in awe of the level of complexity and depth of spiritual truths, psychological links to those truths and massive questions that remain unanswered, but pose new sets of questions I've never thought about.

A lot of this has come from reading.

I mean, all of it, mostly all of it. Uh I read The Great Divorce by CS Lewis on our road trip to Florida, which we had a great time in Florida.

We drove down there last Thursday, a week from today, uh, I guess six days ago.

And it was a great drive.

It was great weather while we were there and we had a very fun time with Joel and Lindsay and Shepard got to see the ocean and go into a pool for the first time and it was just so fun. And we love Joel Lindsay.

There's a lot that God put on my heart. In regards to Joel, but I'll navigate that in the future. All that to say is I read the great divorce on the way there. And I listened to an hour and a half long podcast on the way home about biblical bridges between the future, the past.

It was crazy.

It was with Jordan Peterson and another guy, another doctor and um and I also just been reading my Bible and doing a lot of deep research on chap GBT.

And then, you know, even yesterday I was reading wild at heart by John Eldridge, actually last two days. And some of those stories and ideas I made my heart come alive a little bit.

And then that's all been pairing with the idea that the world is big.

It's it's open.

God's will for us is bigger than we could ever have thought more extensive than our little box we put it in, and I think that that's coming to life for me in the theological domain and thought domain and I guess on a bigger scale, just a spiritual domain, but also just on a possibility standpoint from what I can do as a human being, how I can leave my family, how I can grow and scale at my job, and there's been a lot that's happened even now at my job I'm getting a promotion here soon, and I'll be officially taking on a director's role, which has been a long time coming, and I'm so grateful that it's finally here and I feel like I've really been patient for this, but there are moments where I don't feel like I deserve it, and I still do feel like I'm young, but there's been things that God has orchestrated as only he can to make this happen, specifically the video team get wrecked speech I gave to my team and charged that I gave my team to embrace our pillars and embrace this new season as a video team, and the whole ministry recognized it and was very impressed by what I had, but here's the thing is I don't feel like I was impressed by what I had and I feel like it was God that gave me the ideas and so with all of this, it just feels like God has really been blessing me in it on the in the area of leadership, mental growth, spiritual growth. And it just feels like there's there's something there.

There's something in my future.

There's beautiful things in my future if I continue to lean into this. But um, but for today, which man, there's so many things I wish I could unpack like my mind was blown by some of the things in the great divorce that I just I missed over the first time I read that book and the second time it just hit so much harder.

But what I wanted to talk about today was the thing that I'd been thinking about and researching, and that's the idea that our thoughts the words, the images, the places we go in our thoughts are much more real and powerful than we think.

They are maps and channels in which our lives orbit really.

Jordan Peterson's thought is that the spirit of our aim and thoughts answers our prayers. And he said in his podcast, it's a very dangerous thought.

What does that mean?

And to be honest, I'm trying to figure that out.

But what I wanted to just write down and kind of process out loud was the fact that the Bible talks a lot about our thoughts.

It talks about renewing our mind. Constantly it talks about keeping your thoughts captive, and it also talks about praying without ceasing that well, there's a few other things, too, and I want to link these these scriptures, but basically what Jordan Peterson is trying to unpack is the idea of what a question is and how that relates to thoughts, and how when you have a question in life, almost everything that progresses everything that there is an answer to, starts with a question and the root word of question is quest, and so if you picture your life as a series of quests to be answered with humbly asking a question because it takes humility to ask questions, not pride prideful people don't ask questions.

They think they know the answers, but the humble ask questions which leads to quests, and the quest determines your aim because your whole mind and thought process and heart narrows in on that question, and so your thoughts start to revolve around that question. Your actions start to revolve around that question, and it starts to narrow in your aim to where ye want an answer, and so a thought comes and then a revelation comes from that thought because of the narrowing of your thought process and because of what you're trying to find and so you find a revelation.

But that revelation didn't just come out of your mind.

It came because of a byproduct of you asking a question, and then when you have that revelation you have to weigh it against other revelations.

And that's a dialogue, a dialogue between you and the divine and the world, and when you weigh those outcomes of that revelation based on the question, things progress and Jordan Peterson says that every human, it's almost a secular version of prayer where we all have that.

We all are question and we're all pointing our life towards a certain scenario and aim, and some do it with God, some do it, I think, without God, without even knowing it.

But now I want to tie in those verses because I put this into chat GPT and I said, what are some verses that biblically line up with this idea.

And it said, well, here's the thing.

God says, if you want wisdom, ask, and it will be given to you.

What is asking asking is a question, asking is humbly coming before God, saying God I don't know the answers, so I need you to give me those answers.

I need you to give me that revelation, and now we start having thoughts, intimate thoughts with the Holy Spirit, intimate ways that he's giving us knowledge and revelation, and we begin that process of aligning our heart with what God wants. And that's the other thing is God says that we should align our heart where your treasure is, your heart is also.

And so if our treasure, if our treasure is in a thing, if our treasure is in a job, a marriage, an outcome on earth, our heart's going to align to that. Our thoughts are going to align to that, and we might be able to throw God's name in to help us, but the end of it all is it related to God, and now my mind even goes towards the great divorce and some other things I have been hearing about this idea of a God shaped vacuum where everything leads to God, every desire, every need that we want has a god shaped whole that if we miss that, we think that goodness and joy and fulfillment comes from something that God created when in reality that thing that we have a desire for deep down is answering just a fraction of the desire, and the true desire lies underneath which is God himself because God is fullness his truth and even if you think about it as truth, our life is a search for truth.

We want to find truth, and that's why we ask questions.

That's why we go on these journeys.

And so it's just really interesting that God tells us to protect our thoughts, to take them captive, that he tells us to renew our mind, that he tells us to pray without ceasing.

How do you do that?

Well, is there ever time you're not thinking?

Is there ever a time that your thoughts and that your aims are not somehow manipulating every second of your life?

I don't think so.

I think every decision, every thought, everything you have is related to the aim that you've set in your life, and so if our aim is correct, our thoughts are going to be correct, and if our thoughts are correct, we're taking them captive only life can come from that.

God's will be done. Not my will, but yours be done. Anyway, I wanted to just put that down in here.

It's very complex.

I feel like I'm still just scratching it on the surface, but I'm not scratching it on the surface.

I'm I'm scratching the surface.

But it's a beautiful day today.

It's sunny.

It was really bad yesterday.

O, cloudy.

There's a lot of tornadoes, tornio warnings.

Wonderful be to go to the pool today and finally opened up.

Anyway, I'm sure Shepherd's been wake up soon.

And here's the other thing.

My alarm went off this morning.

I immediately turned it off.

I said, no, this morning I'm gonna sleep in.

I said, I deserve it.

That a long week.

I worked out on Monday, woke up early on Monday and Tuesday.

It's Wednesday.

Let me just sleep in. And Harley was snoring in bed and I kicked her really hard.

I hated that she was snoring.

She annoyed me so much.

I tried to kick her so I could go out to sleep and um she wouldn't and she got out of bed and she scratched on her door.

And I was like, I have to let her out.

I have no choice.

I can't just sit here and pretend that that's not happening.

And so I got out of bed, I let her out.

The sun, I could barely open my eyes because it was so bright outside.

And I thought, okay, I'm up.

I might as well just do my typical routine.

And I pushed through it and looked where it led. This beautiful time of revelation and time with God.

Time to question things and sit in my thoughts, get a jump on the day. Exercise exercise self discipline, however, I don't think I did exercise self discipline this morning.

I actually failed in that area.

This was not self-discipline.

This was somebody else waking me up.

It was the the thing that I kicked woke me up.

The thing that I hated God used to bring joy in life into my morning. And I'm nothing I hate Harlow, but I hated the situation.

But here I am and I don't regret it.

Any second now Shepherd soon start crying.

My days can get started and it won't slow down.

I'll get hungry.

I'll get tired bored, hot, annoyed and then I'll go to sleep.

So this morning my prayer is that I wouldn't get bored, angry, ha, annoyed, that I would see every moment as a gift. And every challenge as a blessing in every second as an opportunity to love.

But I'm very grateful for the circle of a day that there is morning.

There is afternoon and there is night There is rest.

There's a time to rise the time to work time to sit and ponder time to speak up and talk time to push my body use my muscles, my time to lay down and cover up, go to sleep. Time to serve and love and the time to be thankful for the love that I'm being shown. And I swear that guy already emptied that trash can.

He just did it again.

WN waste management.

Anyway.

I don't want to stop this for some reason.

It almost feels like I'm truly pausing time and when I push stop, the feature is gonna come.

But I guess today couldn't have come if I hadn't done this before, so I'm gonna have to do it again.
